I guess that he was a very practical guy.
He'd had experience in the oil field, and that's why I thought quite a lot of him.
And later, he went to work at a bank in Houston, and I would go down and visit him.
And at one time, I had to borrow money from his bank.
I had a real good relationship.
When he quit the bank, he had a separate office.
And I used to go by and visit with him whenever I'd go to Houston.
In those days, we went to Houston quite a bit.
All right.
While you were a student?
Oh, no.
Oh, OK.
Afterward.
Oh, yeah.
He taught several years after.
In fact, he was there when the war ended because the whole group went back to A&M.
after World War II when Eisenhower came.
And I remember that I took Betty and we went up and visited with Harold.
As you think now about the kind of instruction you received, was it theoretical or realistic in terms of what you encountered after you left the campus?
Well, I think it was realistic.
I always thought that the strength of A&M was some of the teachers that they had, and most of them had been there for some time.
And, you know, a good question to anyone after they get out, ask them,
What was their purpose in going to get a college education?
Was it to make money?
Was it to save the world, or what?
And I suppose that I went, the hopes of getting a job in the other fields.
And sure enough, it worked out.
In class, what was the normal behavior pattern
How did you, how often did you go to class and how did you behave and you and your colleagues in class?
I think very good.
Did you go regularly?
Did you cut?
No, no.
Did you sleep in class?
Probably.
Not very much.
No, there's one fellow that would throw chalk at you if you went to sleep.
Who?
That could have been Spencer.
No, the only reason that you'd go to sleep if you didn't get enough sleep.
The YMCA, was that an important center of activity?
Yes, it was at the time that I was there.
That's where they had the yell practice on the steps.
And it was a real center of all activity.
What was described?
When you had someone visiting you because of a young lady,
You'd usually go over there.
And I believe that they had one place that served meals.
And it was just a social place.
And they actually had dances there.
In the wine?
I believe that's correct.
That's smaller dances.
The larger ones, they always had sublisa, class dances.
All right, let's go to those dances.
What were the important dance occasions when you were an undergraduate?
Well, they had the freshman ball.
I think that's softball.
I've seen the ring dance.
Boot dance.
And where were they held?
What orchestras performed?
It was one from Brian.
One of the fellas that was in the band.
Over the years they had several real big, good orchestras.
I think Tex Benneke was there, and I think there was some others that were.
When you went to one of those dances, what did you students wear?
Dress in uniform.
What did a young lady wear?
Even young.
And how were those young women treated by the young men?
You had a choice of, they set up the dormitory for them.
Or some of the teachers or professors, family invited them to stay.
And was the dance, was the behavior of the dance appropriate?
Yes.
There was very little drinking in the early days.
There was one thing that they usually did.
Not usually, but they had Bryan Country Club.
And it stayed open longer.
And the juniors and seniors usually would all go out there afterward.
There was not too many freshmen or sophomores allowed.
A lot of times they would, some of them that didn't have a date would try to pick up a date and then take her out there later.
How did the young ladies get to
College Station?
The ones that I'm sure some of them came on the train, but most of them are parents of my brother.
The only ones that I know, there was one date I had was from Houston, and about three or four girls drove it together in the car.
That was my journey.
That would have been a long trip in those days.
No, that wasn't too bad.
The, let's see, described Guyon Hall events.
Well, they had most everything there.
Any kind of gatherings that they wanted to do something to inform the students or something.
And then I remember Jesse Jones made a speech there one time.
They had a fellow named Law.
A fellow from Houston named Law.
I remember one time he gave a speech there.
Do you remember some other famous visitors while you were a student?
Well, Roosevelt came when I was there.
Franklin D. Do you remember for what?
Yeah, we had a review for him.
And it could be that he was there maybe just before election or something.
Did you get to see him?
Oh, yeah.
What was your impression?
Well, actually, I saw him.
from the parade ground to that he was in a reviewing stand.
I had no idea that he was in a wheelchair.
I mean, he was standing up.
And I really didn't know until later that he wore braces.
This was on the drill field or in the drill field?
I think he went from the train
to the drill field and back.
If there was a famous visitor then who needed to spend the night, where did they stay?
They had one place, they called it Aggieland Inn.
It was pretty nice.
Describe it, where it was and what it was like.
It was just across from Sabisa Hall.
About how many rooms do you have?
Couldn't have been very many.
Twenty?
Let's see.
In Guyon, were there ever any religious events?
I don't remember any.
There were a lot of churches in the area, and all of them were pretty active.
Did students often go to church?
Oh, yeah.
Were they basically Protestant or Catholic or what?
Well, it was mostly Protestant.
There was a Jewish church there, and Catholic also.
Were there any Jewish students that you knew?
Yes.
How were they treated?
Well, I had one for a roommate for a while, and I think he was treated as well as anybody.
There was only one out of them.
What about Catholic students?
I sure don't think that they were.
I never heard of anything that happened as far as being Catholic.
Were there any students from other countries, any international students?
Not in court.
There were some of those in separate quarters.
And how were they treated, as far as you know, by everyone else?
Well, you know, I remember they had some wooden buildings that were
past Walton Hall and those fellows used to do a couple Indians and they were real.
They would talk.
We'd be out getting in line and we'd make comments back and forth.
It was all very friendly and I mean the guy was nice.
They would try to tease him and he'd tease them right back.
So it was just a teasing thing.
Now, I had to be in the Corps of Cadets the first two years.
Could I drop out after two years?
Yes.
And what were those people called or was there a nickname for those who dropped out?
Oh, I see that.
When I was there, very few dropped out because of the pay and the clothing allowance and then the chance to go to camp.
Let me see if I can think of anything.
I'm sure that's changed and maybe they got a name, but I don't think we had a name.
Did many people frog in?
Yes.
I'd say in our company we had maybe one or two.
Did they get teased about being frogs?
Not too much.
They sure called frogs.
In terms of student opinion,
What were the easiest and most demanding majors?
Chemistry.
Those were the... Physics.
Those were the most demanding.
Electrical engineer.
All right.
Electrical.
And chemical, I think, were the most difficult.
What were supposedly the easiest?
Probably some of the agricultural courses.
They didn't have...
Did y'all have nicknames for some of the majors?
Yeah, actually they had nicknames for the different units, the core units, the artillery, the coast artillery, they call them buzzard busters.
Buzzard busters.
engineers, crapper builders, and the, I believe the chemical engineers were the stink bombers, and the cavalry was horse jocks or something like that, and infantry was paddle feet.
Paddle feet.
Signal Corps.
Let's see what they call those guys.
And y'all didn't, you had nothing that
was anywhere close to being armor yet?
Everything was horse-mouthed.
Let's see, you mentioned Coast Artillery.
What about Field Artillery?
Did they have a nickname?
Let's see, DeWare Fieldhouse was the indoor sports building.
What did you all do at DeWare?
That's where you had all of the P.E.
classes.
And that's where you met with Penworthy to get indoctrinated or whatever, and then you'd go to different things.
They played the basketball games there.
And I'm not sure whether they had their intramural boxing hat at some point.
Their intramural wrestling boxing hat.
Was every student expected to be involved in intramurals?
Yes, the upperclassmen encouraged me.
And it was a good thing.
You had competition with the other.
What were your favorite intramural activities?
I guess touch football.
Did you have a least favorite?
No.
Were there any... You had a choice of...
I never did go out for boxing or wrestling.
I think I went out for rifle shooting.
Were there any intramural activities that were entirely new to your experience?
There's nothing like field hockey or something.
Well, there's a tribe across or anything else.
Describe for me, please, in as much detail as you can, a football weekend during your student days.
When did the activities begin, and what all did it include, and how long did it last?
Most of them then were in the afternoons.
But was there anything on Friday before the game?
Well, they always had
Yale practice.
Midnight Yale practice the day before.
Where?
In front of the fly.
What happened at Yale practice?
I remember one, my freshman year, that TCU had a real strong team.
And the two senior cheerleaders,
They started out by playing the TCU song, and then they just had about everybody crying.
And I'd say that those tied the whole core together probably as much as anything, because everybody went, and everybody liked it.
Freshmen had to be up in front, sophomores back, and then senior thing.
Same way in the seating.
All right, at midnight yell practice, was there anything that went on out there in the darkness that... No, I'd say this.
The only thing I remember about it, the band would get out and march somewhere.
We didn't meet down at the field at that time.
All right, then on Saturdays, Saturday morning was not organized.
Could you sleep in on Saturday morning?
No.
Let me see if I'm
It's possible that we had to march in.
So we went to breakfast and got ready to march in.
Pretty sure that's right.
Was there, and there was a review?
Yes, there was everyone.
Do you remember any famous reviewing officers?
No, that was before the wars, and I don't believe there was any.
It seemed like if you had a date that you could be excused from the march in.
And during the game did you all sit or stand?
I stood the whole time.
Did dates get kissed after scores?
I think they started that after I was there.
Did people talk about the 12th man then?
Not none of it.
Well actually we knew, we actually talked more about his name than
I mean, everyone repeated that.
At least, the night before the game, the coach would always be there too.
Who was the coach?
Homer Norton.
Please describe him.
Well, he was a, I'd say he was kind of a sentimental fellow.
He'd won quite a few games.
He would always give a real stirring talk.
Pleasant?
Oh yes, I mean emotional.
He would play and fight.
Who were the football stars during your days?
Joe Rout was there when I was there.
In fact, Dick Todd came this sophomore year.
That was one reason that I went back, for sure, because I really got indoctrinated with the football just because of the way they did everything with the golf practice and so forth, the enthusiasm.
And when I first went home, I told my dad I didn't know whether I was too pinched about going back or not.
This was at the end of your first year?
And then I read in the paper that A&M had recruited Dick Todd.
Cool slash.
And I took a picture of him when he got off the train.
Did you recognize that picture?
My memory begins of A&M football with reading about Dick Todd.
Let's see.
Now, Kimbrough and that group, were they there as freshmen their senior year?
I'm fairly sure.
I saw Kimbrough play his first game.
He went into the Baylor game at Waco.
And that's when he, they just couldn't stop him.
It was about the second or third game.
It was a long while.
I guess it was his sophomore year.
Freshman went and played.
Do you have some football memories that are very keen?
Some games that you remember particularly, plus or minus?
I'd say the most
In my sophomore year, Sammy Ball was a coach, quarterback for TCU.
TCU had the winning team, but A&M beat him at that college station that year.
He was kind of crippled.
A&M had a freshman named Roy Young.
Do you ever remember him?
He was from the guy in Beaumont somewhere.
Big guy.
I got fairly well acquainted with him.
A football player stayed in one end of Walton Hall, down on the east end.
And one time I volunteered to help teach, and that was a disaster.
There'd be several guys in there.
They just came in.
Nothing was organized by the coaches or anything.
I don't remember exactly how it got started then.
But I would try to do something and one of the guys would lean back in their chairs and one would push the other one over.
And so it didn't work out too well.
Now, as far as you know, did the athletes go to class?
Yes, fairly well.
I mean, they had to be in the Corps.
They were excused probably more than other students.
Was there any major that all the athletes were stuck in?
I have no idea.
I don't think they had a physical education classification of things that they do now.
Were there any Texas games that were particularly dear in your memory?
Probably a lot of them.
Anything happen at any of those that stand zone?
Well, one was... Let's see.
Band.
Aggie Band?
Tell me about the Aggie Band.
Well, everybody thought that was the best band ever.
Everybody respected the band.
It was a big essay.
Describe what the band did.
Well, they just marched.
At what kinds of activities?
Well, just at the football games.
Of course, they, of course, in all of the parades, what do you call it, on the drill field, they led the deal.
Also, they went to meals every day.
Yeah, so they were well thought of.
No, the thing I was thinking about was Texas students and the SMU students always, every time they'd see us with uniforms, they'd say, poor old farmers.
Did you all say anything back to them?
Well, one time.
Then my brother, young brother, got into it.
Let's see.
What about, describe final review for me in your days.
Where was it held?
It was on the drill field.
They'd go around once with the seniors leading, if I remember correctly.
And then they would let the juniors take over.
And I think maybe we went around again.
with the juniors leading.
I'm fairly sure that they hadn't appointed all of the officers for the next year.
I believe they did by companies.
But anyhow, and then they went back by companies.
The whole company got together and started telling everybody goodbye.
Where'd you get your senior boots?
In Houston.
I actually got a discount on my boots.
I went to a bootmaker in Houston.
He said if I would sell another pair or two, he'd give me a discount.
But I did sell, I think, one more pair.
Do you remember what they cost?
I have no idea.
Let's say $30, $40 maybe.
Was it normal then?
to get a new pair of boots, or did the average student get a pair of hand-me-downs?
At that time, there wasn't too many hand-me-downs.
I think I might have given my boots to my younger brother.
I had one brother's below me.
I know I didn't keep them.
Can you describe for me commencement in your days?
Particularly your commencement.
Where was it held?
Who spoke?
I did not go to the commencement.
Why?
I've never been to one.
Really?
Was that common not to go to commencement then?
Well, actually, I've only been to two.
I was eligible for two.
At A&M, I liked about four hours of graduating, something like that.
So I went back the next summer, half a term, I think, and then they sent me the diploma at OU.
I had a job offer, and they wanted me there before the commencement, so I didn't go.
The only commencement I've been to is when I was president of the Association.
The president of the Association, okay.
Did you attend commencement as a junior or a sophomore?
Where was it held?
I think I know, but I don't believe it.
It could have been a G. Wiley.
Well, no, G. Wiley wouldn't have been finished.
It wouldn't be.
Was it normal in that era, as far as you know, for each graduating student to attend as it is now?
I don't think so.
Well, now, I can't answer that because I didn't graduate at the same time in class.
All right, now I've heard that there were some secret fraternities once upon a time at A&M.
Is there any information you can share about?
It's just rumors.
All right, what were supposedly the rumors?
Well, I never did believe them.
Maybe that's naive, but they have what they call TT, True Texans.
They'll have any idea.
And I'd say that maybe before that I was there,
It might have been something, maybe.
According to the rumors, what did the TTs do?
Nothing.
I really don't know.
In fact, I doubted it.
I've heard also mention of the stickers.
Stickers.
Swastikers.
Never heard of them.
And I've been told that the letters TT may have stood for Tonkawa tribe.
Only one person has mentioned that.
They called it True Texas.
OK.
And you don't know whether they really existed in your day or not?
No.
They were talked about just about like they're talking about Slick Willie now.
The project houses for, tell me about those, where they were, and who lived there, and what did they?
Well, let's see.
This fellow, Russell, started those.
Heard it, Dan Russell.
Real nice guy.
Well, they were across the railroad.
And I don't believe that I was ever over there.
I knew one of the fellows that was working this island where he worked for one year.
And he worked there.
He was in the same class that I was in.
And he lived in one of those houses and he would tell us about it.
They brought in their food and things like that to cheapen their cost.
Now were they in the Corps?
Yes.
And who built those houses?
I imagine that Dan Russell moved into a whole bunch of junk houses or something and put them together.
As I understand it, various counties and towns paid for it.
So that their youngsters could... That's possible.
I don't know why.
I guess I was lucky that I didn't have to... When you traveled around from College Station,
How did you get to other towns, if you were going home or going somewhere?
Actually, if we went to say a core trip to go by train, we made two a year.
Describe those.
Well, if you'd all go by companies down to get on the train.
Where?
Fort Worth.
No, where would you get on?
plane, the train would be parked there by the depot.
And we headed in the direction, whether he was going to Houston or Dallas or, let's see, I definitely remember marching in Fort Worth, Houston twice, and possibly to Dallas once.
And Austin?
Yeah, it's, let me see now.
Houston or Austin?
one year and Dallas or Fort Worth one year, wouldn't it?
That's the case.
Yes, I remember marching here.
So you went on the train.
Were there any fun activities you all did on the train?
Bad.
Such as?
They would take rolls of toilet paper and the train stopped or something.
They'd throw it out and decorate the fences and the trees.
That's about all.
All right, when you got, you normally went on a Friday?
Yes, we'd go.
It seemed like we'd get directly off the train.
And go much?
In Houston.
Oh, so you'd go early Saturday morning?
Yeah, easily.
Maybe even Fort Worth.
They'd get you up early there if you need to go somewhere.
And so then, when did you come back to College State?
Everybody was on their own to come back.
Sometimes, I don't know, I don't ever remember coming back on the train.
How did you get back then?
Well, someone would have access to a car or maybe their family.
Normally, I'd just like to say Fort Worth.
I stayed with one of the friends, a freshman.
We stayed all night at his house.
Slept on the floor.
And I'd say maybe one of his brothers drove us back.
I'm pretty sure he drove us back.
Did you all ever have dates on those out of town court trips?
Yes.
How did you get a date on those out of town?